[TT-12840, DX-1620] Added explanation of bug fix missed in 5.4 RN (#5260)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/release-notes/version-5.4.md

Addressed a problem with nested field mapping in UDG for GraphQL (GQL) operations. Previously, querying a single nested field caused an error, while including another *normal* field from the same level allowed the query to succeed. This issue has been fixed to ensure consistent behavior regardless of the query composition.
</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Fixed an error in the calculation of effective rate limit from multiple policies</summary>

Fixed a long-standing bug in the algorithm used to determine the effective rate limit when multiple policies are applied to a key. If more than one policy is applied to a key then Tyk will apply the highest request rate permitted by any of the policies that defines a rate limit.

> Rate limits in Tyk are defined using two elements: `rate`, which is the number of requests and `per`, which is the period over which those requests can be sent. So, if `rate` is 90 and `per` is 30 seconds for a key, Tyk will permit a maximum of 100 requests to be made using the key in a 30 second period, giving an effective maximum of 180 requests per minute (or 3 rps).

Reviewer: Should the maximum requests be 90?

Author: Yes, good spot - I was already thinking about my example of the buggy behaviour 🤣

Author: ```suggestion
Rate limits in Tyk are defined using two elements: `rate`, which is the number of requests and `per`, which is the period over which those requests can be sent. So, if `rate` is 90 and `per` is 30 seconds for a key, Tyk will permit a maximum of 90 requests to be made using the key in a 30 second period, giving an effective maximum of 180 requests per minute (or 3 rps).
```

Previously, Tyk would take the highest `rate` and the highest `per` from the policies applied to a key when determining the effective rate limit. So, if policy A had `rate` set to 90 and `per` set to 30 seconds (3rps) while policy B had `rate` set to 100 and `per` set to 10 seconds (10rps) and both were applied to a key, the rate limit configured in the key would be: `rate = 100` and `per = 30` giving a rate of 3.33rps.

With the fix applied in Tyk 5.4.0, the Gateway will now apply the highest effective rate to the key - so in this example, the key would take the rate limit from policy B: `rate = 100` and `per = 10` (10rps).

> Note that this corrected logic will be applied when creating new keys from Tyk 5.4.0 onwards, so if you have existing policies with rate limits defined and are applying these to keys, there may be a change in the effective rate limit configured in the key.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that this corrected logic is applied when access keys are presented in API requests. If you are applying multiple policies to keys, there may be a change in the effective rate limit when using Tyk 5.4.0 compared with pre-5.4.0 versions.
```
